it's written about Route 66 which was
the used to be the main Highway between
Chicago Illinois and Los Angeles
California very famous Highway because
anybody who wanted to go cross country
always took Route 66 because it was the
shortest way to go and the question is
how do you find the shortest path not
just just any old path or a good path
but how do you find the very shortest
path and that'll be the subject that
we're going to discuss today but Route
uh oh I lament it's passing but it's
been largely replaced by the interstate
highway system that was created by
President Eisenhower guess
why let's see uh maybe the Roy people
know you know why Eisenhower created the
interstate highway system
well in public affairs of course there's
always a distinction to be made between
the explanation and the
reason the explanation
was well move nuclear weapons across the
country let's put it in slightly more
benign terms Eisenhower had observed
that the German Army was able to move
its troops rapidly even though we bomb
their railroads into Oblivion
because of their autobond so Eisenhower
conceived that if there were an invasion
in the United States we too would want
to be able to move our forces around on
a highway system in consequence of that
we have a pretty good highway system and
pretty awful railroad system it's
interesting I'm a beneficiary of that in
funny in a funny way because I'm from
east P Illinois and I was surrounded by
the factories of Caterpillar tractor
company uh which made all the tractors
that built all of those roads so my high
school sent spent money like water from
that huge tax base of all those
factories anyway today we want to find
the very best path instead of uh just a
good path and like uh last time we'll
deal with both
a both an
example that we can set our program to
work on by the way you find the shortest
path between S and
G would you like to bet your life on the
shortest path between S and
G probably not with your eye you can
find a good path but you can't find the
best possible path it's probably today
what we're doing is probably not
modeling any obvious property of what we
have inside our heads but being able to
find the best
path is part of the skill set that
anybody who's had a course in artificial
intelligence would be expected to have
so we're going to look at it even though
it's not like many of the things we do a
model of something that's probably going
on in your
head so we're going to use both this uh
example from Cambridge and our
Blackboard
example but let's see we have to have
our we have to caution ourselves right
Tanya is is search about Maps no it's
about what starts with a c and
Ito next letter is H and it ends up
being choice so so we're talking about
choice
not about Maps even though our examples
are drawn from Maps because they're
convenient they're Visual and it helps
understand the concepts behind uh the
algorithms I'm talking
about so let's start off by looking at
our classroom
example and I did something today that I
um neglected to do last time and that's
talk to you about what I meant by urtic
distance it's those pink lines that I
just drew on on the map we're talking
about the distance as the crow would fly
between two places even though there's
no road that goes between those two
places so in general and we discussed
last time in general it's best to get
yourself into a place that's close as
the crow flies to your goal and of
course that's a euristic and it can get
you in trouble because it it's not
always true it would appear that being
at node e is a good place to be because
it's not very far from G but in that
particular particular case designed to
illustrate the point being close is
actually not a good thing because it's a
it's a dead
end but in general it's a good thing to
be close and when we talked last time
about hill climbing and beam
search being close was the objective of
those kinds of searches and at one point
in a beam search illustration we had C B
A and D we had paths terminating in all
four of those nodes as candidates for
the next round search and we decided on
the basis of these Airline distances to
keep D and B and reject a and C because
they're further away as the crow
flies now I repeat this even though many
of you have had this fixed already in
the your tutorials because we're going
to need this concept of urtic distance
uh today uh and I wanted to be sure
that that point has been
clarified so now with this smaller map I
imagine you can do by
I a determination of what the shortest
path is what is it w can you help me out
with
that s
a s a d g and if you add up those
distances the distance is 11 along that
path that goes from uh
s first to a and then to D and then from
d to
g so want to search that that is the
best path and we're going to treat Wana
as an
oracle because we're going to follow in
our initial attempt to understand these
algorithms uh a very important principle
of problem solving and that is that if
you want to solve a problem the easiest
way is usually to ask somebody who knows
the answer or Google which also probably
knows the
answer so we've uh in this particular
case uh we believe that Wana knows the
answer and she said that the shortest
path is sadg
and its path length is
11 but we don't trust
her because we're applying to the same
medical school and she may be trying to
screw
us okay so uh we want to be very
cautious about accepting uh her answer
until we've checked it to make sure that
she hasn't uh attempted to uh dilute
us so how would we go about doing that
well one way to do that is to check to
be sure that all possible paths that we
could develop end up being for sure
longer than the one that Wana has told
us about so she's told us
about s
a
d g and it has a total path length of 11
and now what I'm going to do is I'm just
going to develop the rest of the of this
tree like U diagram more or less in a
well what I'm going to do is I'm
actually not going to do it in a British
museum a random way way what I'm going
to do is I'm always going to look at the
choice that corresponds to the shortest
path that can be
extended so the shortest path that can
be
extended is this one right here the the
the one that just has the starting node
in it and I could have gone this other
way to B and if I go that other way to B
then the path length along that side is
five and likewise I I could have gone to
I mean if I look at the path that
terminates in a that has that has a path
length of
three so now I've got two choices A and
B I've got choices that extend beyond
those two places so I'm always going to
extend the one that has the shorter the
shorter length so in this case that
would be the path that goes from s to
a so if I go from s to a I don't have to
go to D I can also go to
B and if I go to B then the accumulated
path length the accumulated path length
is sa that's
seven and
notice note that we're we're we're
talking now about the path length the
accumulated path length that we've
traveled so far last time we were
talking a lot about distances to the
goal euristic estimates of how far we
are from the goal now we're doing
exactly the opposite we're not
considering how far we've got to go
we're only thinking about how Far We've
gone so
far so now uh repeating uh these steps
again I've got seven and five so I'll go
over and consider the choices that go
from through the B node when're on the
path SB and that gives me SB a and SB
C and what are those path lengths well
let's see
SBA would be nine and SBC would be nine
and now the shortest path is this one
over here so I extend that and I go
sa s a b only place I can go is C that
adds another four so that's 11 and what
do I know about that
path I don't have to take that any
further
right because the path length path
distance I've gone on that path already
is equal to the path length that Wana
has told me gets me to the
goal so be full full hearty to carry on
because presuming that these links are
all non- negative I can't get any I
can't do any better and I can't even do
as well unless I've got a length that
has zero
length so now that I have that idea I
can quickly finish up by saying well let
me consider these two paths
SBA can only go to D and if I go to D
that adds three 9 + 3 is
12 nothing else can happen there because
that's 12 and I've got a path of the
goal that's 11 C I can only go to
E it's a dead M but I don't have to
think about that because I know that the
accumulated distance along this path is
6 + 9 that's
15 so all of
these need not be extended any further
because their length accumulated so far
is equal to or less than the length of
the goal so I've checked the Oracle and
although we're applying the same Medical
School Wana has told me the
truth so now unfortunately Wana is not
always
around and I don't always have an
oracle so I'm going to have to
have I'm going to have to have some way
of finding the shortest path without
that Oracle that I can I can check
against and this let's see what can I do
maybe I can maybe I can do the same
thing I just did
always extend the shortest path so far
and hope that I run into the goal some
at some point and then I have to ask
myself the question how much extra work
did I need to do when I don't have the
Oracle but let's just uh try it and see
what
happens I don't have that path to start
with so I just have S its distance is
zero I can go either to A or B if I go
to a I've got a distance of three here
I've got a distance of
five I'll extend the path that goes
sa that can either go to b or
d going to b or d gives
me seven that way sad D gives me six so
looking across all of these and
extending the shortest path so far takes
me back over to
s
b so I extend
those SB takes me to a or c
and those in turn have total accumulated
path lengths of Nine and Nine now the
shortest one is sad you see the pattern
now let's see I haven't found the goal
yet so I can ask myself the question is
any of the work that I've done so far
wasted no because all of the paths that
I've got so far are shorter than the
path of the goal because the goal hasn't
shown up
so when I do my Oracle checking after I
found the goal none of that work is
going to be
wasted so in the end I don't actually
need the Oracle I can just develop this
graph by extending the shortest path so
far until I hit the goal and then do a
perhaps a little remaining checking to
make sure that all the other paths
extend with a length that's greater than
the path of the goal so if those words
are confusing let's carry on with the
algorithm I think it'll be clear
so let's see we've got the s six and two
NES we going to extend the one that's
six that gets us to the goal boom we've
got it and we've got a path length of
11 but note that we can't
quit because we have to be sure that all
other paths are longer than
11 so now we have to carry on with the
same algorithm that we started with the
Oracle checking
algorithm and when we do that we look
for the shortest path so far that has
not been extended that's B
Sab goes to C that's 11 so we're done
there a goes to D that adds three that's
12 C goes to e that adds six that's 15
and sure enough we're
done okay Elliot um does it know that
there isn't a chance that you could have
a zero dist extension
from the question is does it know that
there's
no
zero distance length that's coming up
that's an implementation detail uh this
guarantees you
find a path that's as short as any that
you possibly find but there might be
others if there are zero length lengths
right as long as they're non- negative
lengths we're safe we've got a shortest
path
so that was easy and uh now we can uh
repeat the exercise with our more
complicated map of
Cambridge first of all Let's uh do depth
first just to recall what that looks
like that is certainly not a short
path so let's try this idea which by the
way Bears the label branch and bound
let's try branch and bound on the on the
on the same map
and there it goes each of those little
flickers is trying another path so you
can see it's it's working its guts
out to find that shortest
path it's almost there but it's it's
almost a pathological
case where it's almost doing British
museum there it's finally found the
shortest
path now there's some things we can ask
about that but first of all before I ask
anything about it I'd like to get the uh
flowchart up on the board because we're
going to decorate that flowchart a
little bit as we
go so the first thing we do is
initialize
Q then we're going to
test first
path on the
que then uh we might be happy because we
might be done we we might have a
shortest path of the goal actually
that's not quite true is it we have to
be we can't really quit until that short
every other path is it well now that's
interesting do we do if we've taken
the first if the first element on the
que gets us all the way to the goal and
we've sorted our Q by path length are we
through as soon as that first element on
the Q gets us to the
goal yeah because every other path must
have been sorted past you know sorted
Beyond it and and therefore it can't be
can't have can't offer us a shorter path
of the goal so if the first path is a
path of the goal we're
done last it usually isn't so we'll
extend first path
we're going to put all those extensions
back on the que and then we're going to
sort
them so that's pretty much the same as
we did last time we're always going
to put the elements back on the que
going to look at the first element on
the que and see if it's a winner if it
is where done if it's not we're going to
extend it and then go back in here and
try
again well sort of but we noted that
this uh did an awful lot of work because
um if we look at those uh statistics up
there it put
1,354 paths onto the que that's the
enqing part and then it extended 835
paths that had come to the front to the
queue now I'd like to give you an
aside because it's easy to get confused
about
enqing and
extending in all of the searches we did
last time it would have been perfectly
reasonable to keep a list of all of the
pads that we had put onto the
queue an in queing
list and never put a path on the and
never never add a path to our c
if it terminates in a
node that some other path terminates in
that has already gone to the gone onto
the
queue what I said last time is let us
keep track of the things that have been
extended and not extend them again so
you can either keep track of the nodes
that have
been extended and not extend them again
or look at the nodes that have paths
with those that terminate and blah blah
blah and been put on the que the in cued
ones and not put things back on the
Queue again and I think last time I may
have put a column in there that said
ined it should have been
extended even though in cued worked last
time only extended works this time
because we want to be sure that anything
we extend is a short path so the the the
the incute idea doesn't work at all for
these optimal paths so now I want to
come back over here off the sidebar and
and say that we're keeping track of all
of the nodes all of the paths that end
in uh nodes unless they have already
been extended beyond that particular
place so we need to decorate uh our
algorithm here and say um test first
path uh and um extend the first
path
if
not already
extended because you can see that in the
example I had so far we did that same
silliness that we talked about last
time we extended paths
that went through
a more than
once like so would it ever make sense to
extend this
path no because we've already extended a
path that got there with less distance
would it ever make sense to extend this
path n because we've already extended
another path that gets to be by a
shorter
distance so if we keep an extended list
we can add that to branch and bound to
our
advantage so let's see how the that
would that that would actually work on
on the classroom example and then we do
Cambridge so this is Branch and bound
plus an extended list
and I do mean uh
extended uh not an inq list ined list
won't work
here so let's see I um start off the
same way as I did before s goes to
either A or
B that's a length of three that's a
length of five so I extend a that goes
to either b or d
but B is as if it wasn't there at
all oh sorry hang
on B goes there and those path lengths
are seven and
six and now I look around on the board
and I say what is the shortest path so
far and it's B so I extend that to get
to A and C with path lengths of Nine and
Nine and what's the shortest one next
it's D and that goes to G and the path
length is 11 and what's the short
shortest
one uh on the board the one that has to
be extended next that's this one that
gets to B but I've already extended a
path that gets to B so I don't actually
do that
extension so I've saved some
work but I've got to go over here and do
these two now but wait wait I've already
extended B I've extended a so I don't
have to do that one either the only one
I have to do is the one that goes to C
and that goes then to e with a path
length of 15 and I'm done so if you
compare this one with the previous one
you can see that there might be vast
areas of this tree that are pruned away
and don't have to be examined at
all so now just for the sake of
illustrating that i' would like to keep
track of just one of those statistics
the uh number of extensions so for this
particular example case one the number
of
extensions was
835 why don't you see if you can kind of
guess to yourself what it would be if I
use uh this concept of an extended list
see I'm not going to extend anything
I've already extended because it's
guaranteed to have a longer path length
than something that already got to that
same place so it makes no sense to do
it so let me change the type to a branch
and bound with an an extended
list I'm going to turn the speed down a
little bit so we can watch it might take
the rest of the hour who
knows still doing a lot of work still
examining a lot of
paths but look at
that instead of 830 5 extensions it only
did
38 so that's a pretty substantial
savings and you would never not want to
do
that so note that that's a layering on
top of branch and bound that's not a
different algorithm it's a an adjustment
an improvement to the algorithm that
makes it more
efficient so this whole thing is based
then
on on what I call the dead horse
Principle as soon as we figure out that
a path that goes to a particular place
can't possibly be the winning path we
get rid of it and don't bother extending
it it's a dead horse
principle
but if we look at this
example what's the shortest possible
length of a path that's already gone
from s to
b what do you think
Tanya well first of all it can't be less
than five because we've already gone
that
distance so when I say what's the
shortest length of any path that there
could possibly be that goes from s to b
we know it's at least
five but can we say something more about
it uh especially when we look at these
Airline distances and note that this is
Airline distance is six and that's a
little more than seven and that's a
little more than
seven so what do you
think so it's gone from s to b and the
question is what's the shortest
path that could possibly be that has
started out going from s to
b 11 right because we can't have a path
that's shorter than the airline
distance if there were a straight line
road from B to G
its length would be six but there isn't
so that gives us a kind of lower bound
on the distance that we have along that
path so we're using the accumulated
distance plus the airline distance to
give us a lower bound on that on the on
the path that we've started that we
started off on from that goes from s Tob
once again let's solidify this a little
bit
by simulating the search
seeing what how it turns out now just as
I did last time I'm going to forget that
I've got an extended
list so we don't I don't want to carry
both those things around with me at the
same time so we'll forget that we're
going to have that we've got an extended
list we'll bring out those all those
back together the
later so we're going to forget what we
just did there and instead we're just
going to use this concept of an airline
distance and see what happens
so as before we start with the starting
node we have two choices as always we
can go to A or B and the accumulated
distance if we go to a is three and the
accumulated distance if we go to B is
five
but now we're going to add in the
airline
distances so the airline distance from a
to G is a little more than
seven which gives us 10
plus the airline distance from B to G is
exactly
six so that gives us
11 and following the procedure we've all
been using already so far we're going to
extend the path that seems to have the
shortest potential now it's the shortest
potential distance from s to G so that
must be this one
here so from a we can go to um b or
d the accumulated distance Sab is
seven the airline distance is six so
that's equal to
uh by standard arithmetic
13 the
the distance sad D that is
six plus a little more than
seven is that oops what's the
accumulated distance It's s a d is uh 3
+ 3 + 3 is 6
right
what would be five right so the airline
distance in this casee is the same as
the actual distance so the accumulated
distance is six the actual distance is
five so that's equal to
11 all right so now I've got two 11s on
the board and simulating what we would
ask you to do on a quiz we don't know
which of those is going to be better
they've got a tie score so what we're
going to do is we're going to choose the
one that's lexically least so B is comes
before D so we'll expand
B and that can go to
either a or
C and we have to calculate the best
possible distance that goes along those
paths the accumulated distance
SBA
s ba is
nine so that's 9 +
7+ that's 16 plus this has an
accumulated distance of 9 also plus 7
plus also 16 plus
oh well now let's see things are shaping
up pretty well because this one has the
lowest score so far we extend that to G
and now the accumulated distance is
11 the airline distance is zero so
that's 11 and that's smaller than
everybody
else so we've got
it so now
compare this one with our Branch inbound
graph and you see once again
that we've done considerably less work
and that in many practical cases means
that instead of taking more than the
remaining lifetime of the universe to
complete the calculation it can happen
in a few seconds but let's see how it
works on the
example so I'm not going to use the
extended list I'm just going to use this
idea of using the a lower bound on the
distance remaining the airline distance
and see what happens
EX
so this time the number of extensions is
70 so it didn't do quite as well as
working alone as the extended list did
working alone so we immediately conclude
that
the extended list is more useful than
using one of these lower bound tics by
the way this is called an admissible
urtic so if if a estimate of the
remaining distance is a lower bound on
the actual distance is less than the
lower sorry if the if the if the
euristic estimate is less guaranteed to
be less than the actual distance that's
called an admissible urtic admissible
because you can use it for this kind of
purpose so it looks
like the
um extended list is a more useful idea
an admissible idea
right what do you think about that br am
I am I am I am I hacking you am I joking
you're judging prematurely why am I
judging prematurely what do you think it
might depend
onions
and
guarante well that's Brett has said
something unintelligible that I can't
think how to repeat what he meant to say
though was
that in these cases it almost always
depends on the problem itself if you
change the problem get a different
result so why don't we change the
problem and see if we get a different
result so instead of starting on the
extreme left let's start in the middle
and see what
happens so I'll readjust my starting
position to be right there oops that's
the wrong
adjustment and we might as well start by
getting our Baseline that branch and
bound with
anything and for that
one maybe we'll speed it up a little
bit so that gives us 57 extensions it's
an easier
problem so let's try it with um the
admissible
euristic oh that went too
fast wow still pretty fast six
extensions what do you think this number
is going to
be closer to six or closer to 57 better
than six worse than six well let's think
uh what we're going to do is we're going
to just not repeat any any any movements
through the same node again but it's not
going to do something very important for
us it's not going to keep us out of the
left
side right because there's it has no
idea of the remaining distance but
Airline distance to the goal so let's
see if that's
true well sure is look at that it is
foolishly spending a lot of its time
doing something we would never do namely
looking over there on the left side
so this time the number of extensions is
35 so in case two the admissible aristic
does very much better in case one the
extension thing does much better but
wait a minute would we ever not want to
use both at the same
time no would never not we wouldn't want
we wouldn't use want to use just one of
these right they both seem to have the
possibility of doing a lot of good so
maybe if we put them in harness together
we'll get something that's even better
and when we do
that see here the extended list is a
layer on top of branch and bound the
admissible urtic is another layer on top
of branch and bound if we put those
together we get something called a star
so a star is just branch and bound plus
an extended list plus an admissible
urtic so let's go back to our original
problem and try a star on that
we're running this at a pretty slow
speed because we're expecting it to be a
whole lot more efficient than the
original branch in Bound it sure enough
it is number of extensions is 27 so look
at
that a lot better than either of those
working
independantly now we can stick the thing
in the center and see what happens then
boom six so in this particular
case the extended list didn't actually
help us because our admissible euristic
was channeling us so tightly toward the
goal didn't
matter so it all depends on the on the
on on the nature of the space that
you're trying to
explore by the way
uh you now have the whole works right so
what you want want to do is you you want
to extend the first path and sort but
not just by accumulated distance
sort uh
by accumulated
distance plus admissible
euristic but where are the theoreticians
you must be
complaining sorts expensive
do we need to actually do the short do
we actually need to
sort no we don't actually need to sort
what do we need to do to keep track of
which is the minimum we just need to
keep track of which the minimum so we
don't need to actually do that sort
that's an un necessary
computation so instead we can test not
the first path but the shortest path
and now you have it now you have the
whole of
AAR and now you could go home um but I
don't think you should because I'm about
to show you a that this idea of
admissibility actually leads to certain
screw cases that we're very fond of
asking you about on
exams all right so it turns out that the
admissible urtic in certain
circumstances can get you into trouble
doesn't look like it could because
logically nothing I've said seems seems
strange or
questionable but that's because I've
been working with a
map and it turns out that if you work
with a map then admissibility is a
perfectly sound way of doing an optimal
search but Travis is search just about
Maps no no search is not just about Maps
so we may have non nonukan Arrangements
that will causes trouble so i' like to
illustrate that with the following
example
it's not going to be a large map or a
large graph s can go up here to uh a or
down here to
B then they merge at
C and then they go out here to the goal
G and the actual distances are 1
1 1 and 10 and over here we'll make that
100 so it's a kind of oddly constructed
map uh but it's there because we need a
pathological case to illustrate the
idea now that's the actual distances and
if we did branch and bound with an
extended list everything would work just
fine but we're not we're going to use an
admissible urtic and we're going to say
that this guy has an estimated distance
to the goal of 100 this guy is zero and
and this guy is zero now zero is always
an
underestimate of the actual distance to
the goal right so I'm always free to use
zero is that 100 okay yeah because the
the actual distance is 101 so it's less
than the actual distance so it's a so
it's a it's okay as an admissible
aristic so these numbers that I put up
here are together constitute an
admissible euristic set of estimates to
the goal so now let's just simulate
AAR and see what
happens so first of all we start with
s and that can either go to
A or
B the actual distance is
one uh plus the uh an estimate on the
remaining distance that gives us uh 100
uh plus 100 that's equal to 100
one if we go to b instead the actual
distance is one plus the aristic
distance is zero so that's equal to
one okay good so now we know that we
always extend the shortest path so
far did I did I goof this or you asking
a
question yeah it's the actual when I say
actual it's the P it's the actual
distance you travel
but so so wait a second if I I go from s
to a the actual distance I've traveled
is one oh I me like does the so that so
so now I'm taking the sum of the actual
distance plus the estimated distance to
go
I'm see this is this is not a
map she was asking if this if the if the
map has to be geometrically accurate see
this could be a a a model of something
that's not a map and so I'm free to put
any num on those links that I want
including the estimates as long as
they're under estimates of the distance
along the
links so this tells me that uh my
estimated distance here so far is is one
so I'll surely go down here to
C and if I go to C then my accumulated
distance
is
11 and my estimate of the remaining
distance is
zero so that's a total of
11 so now I'm following my eristic again
and saying what's the
shortest what's the shortest path on the
basis of the accumulated distance plus
the estimated distance here the
accumulated distance plus the estimated
distance is
101 here it's only 11 so plainly I
extend this guy and that gets me to the
goal and the total
distance uh total accumulated distance
is now 111 Plus
0 =
111 and that's not the shortest path but
wait uh I I still have to do my checking
right I have to extend
a and when I extend a I get to B and now
when I get to B that way my accumulated
distance is
two plus um my um oh sorry sa C
my accumulated distance is two my
estimated distance is zero so that's
equal to two so I'm okay because I'm
still going to extend this guy right
wrong I've already extended that
guy so I'm I'm hos I I won't find the
shortest path because that I'm going to
stop there and I'm going to stop there
because this is an admissible eristic
and that's not good enough unless it's a
map it's not good enough in this
particular case because this is not g
this cannot cannot be done as a as a map
on a
plane so that's uh that's a situation
where what I've talked to you about so
far works with branch and bound works
with branch and bound plus an extended
list but doesn't work when we add an
admissible Uris so if we're going to do
this in general we need something
stronger than admissibility which works
only on maps and so the flourish that
I'll tell you about here in the last few
seconds of today's lecture
[Music]
is to
add a
refinement as follows so far we've got
admissibility and if we want to write
this down in a kind of mathematical
notation we can say that it's admissible
if the estimated distance between any
node X and the
goal is less than or equal to the actual
distance between X and the
goal that's definition of admissibility
as long as the TIC does that it's
admissible and a star works if it's a
map but for that kind of situation where
it's not a map we need a stronger
condition which is called
consistency and what that says is that
the distance between X and the
goal minus the distance between some
other node and the go
y take the absolute value of that that
has to be less than or equal to the
actual distance between X and
Y so does this euristic satisfy the
consistency condition well let's see
here the guas is a is 100 here at zero
so the so the absolute difference is 100
but the actual distance is only two so
it satisfies admiss admissibility but it
doesn't satisfy consistency and it
doesn't work so you can almost be
guaranteed it will give you a situation
where if you
use
a am missible euristic you'll lose and
and you and and and if you use a
consistent tic you you'll still
win okay so how could we bring this uh
back into the fold well we can't use
that urtic it's no good but if this
urtic estimate of the goal were
two then would be okay because then it
would still be it would still be
admissible but it would also be
consistent all right so the bottom line
is that you now know something you
didn't know when you started
out two lectures ago you now know how um
Map Quest and all of it descendence work
now you can find an optimal path as well
as a tically good path you see that if
you don't do anything other than branch
and bound it can be extremely expensive
and you can even invent pathological
cases where it's
exponential in the distance to the to
the
goal so because it it can be so
computationally horrible you want to use
every Advantage you can which generally
involves using an extended
list as well as a no laptop plays in
still holds no smoking no drinking and
no laptops so you can so you can
use so so so so you use all the muscles
you can and those muscles include using
an extended list and um and an an
admissible or consistent aristic
depending on the
circumstances and so I think we'll
conclude there since uh our time is up
andell you can ask a question after
class why don't you come up and ask it
now